Welcome to the next week of our course on Parallel
Functional programming with Java
Now that we've finished our coverage of java sequential streams
We can finally turn our attention to Java parallel streams
which is the first of several job apparels and Frameworks we cover in this course
This week's lesson start by outlining the structure and functionality of a parallel stream
which partition to data source in multiple chunks
Process of these chunks in a pool of Fred's and combines the results of this parallel processing into a final reduce result
Key
benefit of the Java streams framework is its ability to automatically and transparently map behaviors in a parallel stream to multiple processor course without requiring programmers to spawn explicitly or even apply synchronization mechanisms in many cases
In fact converting a sequential stream to a parallel stream
Often just requires a minuscule changes
such as replacing your call to the screen Factor method with a call to the parallel stream Factory method
This week's lesson to visualize and demonstrate the Simplicity of converting sequential
The parallel streams in the context of the search screen
game case study
This case
study underscores
the fact that all the aggregate operations recovered in prior week's work will work seamlessly with parallel streams
Not surprisingly
However
the three phases of a parallel stream
operate somewhat differently than a sequential stream
This week's lesson there for giving an overview of parallel streams internals
Which particularly important understand When developing performance critical Java programs on Modern multi-core processors
In particular we examine how the streams framework first invokes predefined or you to find splitter
Raiders competition
a data source into multiple Chucks
We next show how these chunks are processed in parallel by running the streams intermediate operations
in the job
Fork
Join
Finally
we Outline by the streams framework uses terminal operations
like collect together with predefined
Are you to find collectors to join
Partial sub results into a final reduce result
To maximize the performance of the Java parallel streams framework
It's important to know which aspects of these phases can be controlled and which cat
So we walked through many code examples to illustrate key points